# iFood Customer Segmentation Project
  The objective of the team is to build a predictive model that will produce the highest profit for the next direct marketing campaign, scheduled for the next month. The new campaign, sixth, aims at selling a new gadget to the Customer Database. To build the model, a pilot campaign involving 2.240 customers was carried out. The customers were selected at random and contacted by phone regarding the acquisition of the gadget. During the following months, customers who bought the offer were properly labeled. The total cost of the sample campaign was 6.720MU and the revenue generated by the customers who accepted the offer was 3.674MU. Globally the campaign had a profit of -3.046MU. The success rate of the campaign was 15%.
  
  The objective is of the team is to develop a model that predicts customer behavior and to apply it to the rest of the customer base. Hopefully the model will allow the company to cherry pick the customers that are most likely to purchase the offer while leaving out the non-respondents, making the next campaign highly profitable. Moreover, other than maximizing the profit of the campaign, the CMO is interested in understanding to study the characteristic features of those customers who are willing to buy the gadget.
  
## Key Objective:
- Explore the data – don’t just plot means and counts. Provide insights, define cause and effect. Provide a better understanding of the characteristic features of respondents.
- Propose and describe a customer segmentation based on customers behaviors.
- Create a predictive model which allows the company to maximize the profit of the next marketing campaign.

## Dataset:
- **Source:** ifood-data-business-analyst-test, last update 19/02/2020
- **Details:** To build the model, a pilot campaign involving 2.240 customers was carried out. The customers were selected at random and contacted by phone regarding the acquisition of the gadget. During the following months, customers who bought the offer were properly labeled. The total cost of the sample campaign was 6.720MU and the revenue generated by the customers who accepted the offer was 3.674MU. Globally the campaign had a profit of -3.046MU. The success rate of the campaign was 15%.

## Tools Used:
- Postbird, SQLite
- Jupyter Notebook
- Tableau

## Methodology:
- Simple data analysis with SQL
- Data Cleaning & Visualization in Jupyter Notebook
- Data Visualization in Tableau

## Key Insights:
- Among food categories, Wine was the highest quantity category, followed by meat and then gold. Among purchase sources, most purchases were made in-store, followed by web and catalogue.
- Comparing between countries with purchases recorded, Spain had the most number of customers, Middle east had the highest average income. Within the food categories, Middle East had the highest average of wine, meat, fish, sweet and gold purchase. Canada had the highest average purchase in fruit.
- Comparing between Education statuses, most customers were college graduate and PhD group had the highest income. Among the food purchase categories, PhD purchased the highest average quantity of wine; College Graduate purchased the highest average quantity of fruit, meat and gold; 2nd Cycle purchased the highest average quantity of fish and sweet.
- Assessing the Marital Status of customers, removing the 2 entries with "Absurd" status for data leanliness, most customers were Married with the highest income fell within Widow category. Widow group also purchased the highest average quantity of food in all categories.

## Recommendations:

## Visualization:
iFood Demographic data/iFood Tableau dashboard.png
